The course provides an introduction to financial accounting. It examines accounting from an external user"s perspective: an external user being an investor or a creditor. Such users would need to understand financial accounting in order to make investing or lending decisions. However, to attain a good understanding, it is also necessary to be familiar with how the information is derived. Therefore, students would learn how to prepare the reports or statements resulting from financial accounting and how to use them for decision-making.
The course provides an introduction to financial accounting. It examines accounting from an external user"s perspective: an external user being an investor or a creditor. Such users would need to understand financial accounting in order to make investing or lending decisions. However, to attain a good understanding, it is also necessary to be familiar with how the information are derived. Therefore, students would learn how to prepare the reports or statements resulting from financial accounting and how to use them for decision-making.
This course aims to help students understand the role of information systems in accounting and other areas of business. In particular, it examines the innovative applications of information systems to streamline business operations and enhance competitive advantage. Students will understand various accounting/business cycles and learn about how information systems are used in different functional areas such as finance/accounting, marketing, operations and supply chain, and HR/management.
The primary aim of this course is to develop a solid understanding of the legal framework required in the operations of business entities especially companies. It covers the entire life-span of a business entity, namely from the formation of the entity to its liquidation. It also includes the various legal obligations and implications in operating the business entity. A secondary objective is to introduce the pertinent provisions of securities legislation such as the Securities &amp; Futures Act and the Takeover Code.
This module provides students with a foundation in tax planning. Part 1 discusses tax planning opportunities for the business entity in a local (Singapore) context, by making use of available tax incentives, different business structures, etc. Part 2 covers tax planning in an international business context, and will deal with double tax agreements, choice of foreign investment vehicles, repatriation of income and capital, tax havens, tax arbitrage, etc. Part 3 deals with tax planning for the individual operating across international boundaries.
The objective of this course is to expose students to the issues that need to be considered in designing and operating logistics and supply chains. We will start with an introduction including definition of logistics and supply chain management, key supply chain costs and metrics, and fundamental issues and trade-offs in supply chain management. We will then discuss the interactions between stages in a supply chain, double marginalization and contracts for supply chain coordination, strategic alliances and incentive alignment, channels of distribution, coordinating distribution strategies, pricing/promotions. We will also discuss supply chain planning, facility location models, and vehicle routing models.
The Independent Study Module in Business provides the opportunity for student to pursue an in-depth study of a Business topic or issue independently, but under the close supervision and guidance of an instructor. Through such a learning experience, not only will the student gain an indepth knowledge of the topic of interest, the skills acquired through such a process of independent knowledge acquisition will be invaluable for a career in the Business world. The personalized interaction with the instructor will also facilitate mentorship.
Objective - The module introduces the scientific basis for environmental management. It discusses the earth"s environmental dimensions of air, water and land, and the interaction between living and non-living components. Earth is considered as a system through which materials are continuously cycled. Impacts caused by natural or human influences affect the state of balance, leading to environmental problems, with human impacts causing more serious consequences to the environment and human society. The module covers the properties of air, water and land, ecosystems, biogeochemical cycles, ecosystem integrity and environmental capacity, pollution pathways and impacts, conservation science, integrated management approaches. The emphasis is to provide a sound understanding of the scientific basis for better environmental decision-making. Targeted Students - For students on the M.Sc. (Environmental Management) program. Research students and students from other graduate programmes in NUS may apply subject to suitability of candidate and availability of places.
This module uses the strategic frameworks to explore specific contemporary issues faced by the general managers in different industries in the different regions of the world. The module will adopt a comparative perspective by first examining the evolution of strategic management practice in the West and in Asia, and then reconciling differences in practices from the viewpoint of an Asian manager.
This module presents an overview of the principles of accounting, with a view to providing executives, who may not possess prior accounting training, with an understanding of accounting concepts. Topics include: the uses and limitations of accounting information for decision making and performance evaluation; the standard techniques of financial control; valuation and capital budgeting; and the management of current assets and liabilities of the firm.
Topics offered under this heading will address one or more of a range of important issues in the management of technology and business. Examples of special topics include: globalization of Asian business, big data and artificial intelligence, Industry 4.0, international relations. This module may also include topics with an industry focus, such as opportunities and challenges in retail, healthcare, and creative industry.
This is a fundamental course in signals and systems, specially developed for computer engineering students. Signals play an important role in carrying information. In particular the idea of frequency domain analysis of signals and systems are important concepts for all computer engineers. The concepts which will be covered include time and frequency domain representations, Fourier transform, spectrum and bandwidth of a signal, frequency response of systems (Bode diagrams), sampling theorem, aliasing, signal reconstruction, and filtering.
Building on the basic circuit concepts introduced through CG1111 and CG1112, this module introduces the fundamental concept of carriers, operating principles of PN diodes and MOSFETs. Their IV characteristic in different operating region and their impact on the performance of logic gate will also be discussed. It explains the foundational concepts of inverters and analyses their performance in terms of power and delay trade-off. It also introduces logic synthesis and the fundamental timing analysis of logic gates. Besides the static CMOS logic, it will also cover pass logics or transmission gates logics.
Survey of functional polymers. Polymer applications in photoresists, e-beam resists, printed wiring as encapsulants in polymer blends and polymer membranes. Electroactive polymers. Polymers in optoelectronics. Surface modified and functionalized polymers. Miscibility in polymer blends. Membrane science. Membrane making and membrane characterization.
This module aims to focus on advanced networking concepts pertaining to the modern Internet architecture and applications. It covers a range of topics including network performance (throughput, delay, Little’s Law and M/M/1 queuing formula), and resource allocation and buffer management (max-min fair, round-robin and RED), intra- and inter-domain routing (RIP, OSPF and BGP), congestion control and modern variations of TCP (AIMD and Cubic TCP), peer-to-peer applications and content delivery networks (BitTorrent, Skype, Akamai), and data center networking and management (SDN and OpenFlow).
This module covers common algorithmic techniques for solving optimisation problems, and introduces students to approaches for finding good-enough solutions to NP-hard problems. Topics covered include linear and integer programming, network flow algorithms, local search heuristics, approximation algorithms, and randomized algorithms. Through analysis and application of the techniques to a variety of canonical problems, students develop confidence to (i) appropriately model a given optimisation problem, (ii) apply appropriate algorithmic techniques to solve the problem, (iii) analyse the properties of the problem and candidate algorithms, such as time and space complexity, convergence, approximability, and optimality bound.
This module deals with computer processing of human languages, emphasizing a corpus-based empirical approach. The topics covered include: 1. Linguistic essentials. 2. Basic techniques and algorithms: Hidden Markov model, Viterbi algorithm, supervised learning algorithms. 3. Words: part-of-speech tagging. 4. Syntax: noun phrase chunking, named entity tagging, parsing (top down, bottom up, probabilistic). 5. Semantics: word sense disambiguation. 6. Pragmatics: discourse, co-reference resolution. 7. Applications: text categorisation, text summarisation, language identification, information extraction, question answering, machine translation.
This module teaches the underlying science of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and its application to user interface design. It surveys a wide range of psychological theories beginning with organizational behaviour approaches, understanding of work and workflow within organizations, and moving on to understanding human psychological architecture and processing constraints. It demonstrates via a combination of scientific theory understanding and engineering modelling the solutions of design problems facing a user interface designer. It also covers new design methods and techniques available and the new conceptual mechanisms used in HCI such as the metaphors for describing user interaction.
This module introduces the fundamental technologies employed in sound and music computing which are grouped into three major areas: Sound, Music, and Interaction. It begins with an introduction to sound production, propagation and perception, followed by digital sound recording, editing, post-processing and compression. Its core components consists of the analytic and synthetic approaches of sound and music. The analytic approach pertains to analysis and understanding, whereas the synthetic approach pertains to generation and processing. Interaction aspects include multimodal mobile music interface and sound interaction design. Finally, music information retrieval will be introduced as an application of analytic techniques.
The objective of this project-based module is to provide an opportunity for the students to work in a group to design and develop a game following the main stages of game development process. The module will focus on the design of core dynamic, game mechanics, strategy, progression, balancing, game levels, interface and technical features including 3D graphics, animation, AI, physics, and networking. In addition, software engineering principles will be practised in developing the game software.
Program analysis denotes automated processes for predicting, estimating or proving properties of program behavior, whether functional or non-functional. Example uses are compiler optimization, bug detection, performance evaluation, detection of security vulnerabilities, amongst many others. This module first provides the rigorous mathematical foundations. This step is necessary in order to understand the common elements within the broad area of software analysis. Secondly, through the use of a state-of-the-art program analysis system, this module provides hands-on instruction on programming real-life analyses. In the end, the graduating student will be able to address a broad spectrum of program analysis in a practical way.
The aim of this module is to introduce the state-of-the-art architectural advances underlying the current generation of computing systems. A review of pipelined processor design and hierarchical memory design is followed by advanced topics including exploitation of instruction-level parallelism through dynamic instruction scheduling and speculation, exploiting thread-level parallelism through multiprocessors, and optimizations for memory and storage subsystems. Throughout the module, particular emphasis will be placed on cost-performance-power-reliability trade-offs in designing the different architectural components.
The module lays the theoretical foundation for graduate students to do research in multimedia: images, videos, audio, speech, graphics and text documents. The module covers the main theoretical issues common to various multimedia research. These issues provide a general framework within which specific techniques in particular research areas can be understood. Topics include: vector and signal representations of multimedia, spatial and frequency analyses, models and parameter estimation methods. Examples will be drawn from different types of media. Upon completion, students will be well-grounded to pursue further research in computer vision, graphics, natural language processing, audio analysis and multimedia applications.
We analyze price formation and economic performance in imperfectly competitive markets by using optimization, statistical and stochastic methods. Strategic interactions between the participants in these markets are emphasized and a theoretical framework is laid out. Theoretical models are analyzed with industry examples and datasets.
The purpose of this course is to provide students with a sound understanding of modern microeconomic theory. Microeconomic theory is concerned with the behaviour of individual economic agents such as individual people, households, firms and single industries. The course presents a rigorous treatment of the principles governing individual behaviour and an introduction to general equilibrium analysis. Other topics that will be covered include game theory, information economics, and welfare economics. Knowledge of basic mathematics is necessary. This includes equations, coordinate geometry, functions of several variables, real analysis, calculus, and vector algebra.
This is a core module for PhD students. It is aimed at providing a good training in econometric theory and applications. It covers some topics already covered in EC5103 but at a more theoretical level. Asymptotic theory, ML and GMM estimation, extremum estimators, non-linear models, simultaneous equations models are among the topics covered under this module.
The module studies how trading takes place in financial markets. We cover theoretical models and the associated empirical analysis employing game theory and econometric theory. We first analyse the movement of security prices by time series models. Second, we investigate various trading strategies adopted by market participants. To understand increasingly popular computerized trading, we cover programming and econometric software such as Excel VBA and R. Then, we examine three main types of theoretical models of trading: inventory models, sequential trading models, and strategic trading models. Finally, we study how trading rules and institutional details may lead to different trading processes.
This module will introduce tools and methodologies for cyber secucity of IoT systems. The topics covered include the basic of cyber security for IoT systems, threats and vulnerabilities, tools and techniques for detecting attacks, and mitigation strategies. In addition to the fundatental concepts, students will be exposed to hands on training for analysing IoT and cyber-physical system data for detecting cyber-threats and attacks.
This module aims to expose students to the principles of wireless and sensor networks, as well as to some recent advances in these areas. The first part of the module provides the concepts and operational details of cellular networks, wireless local area networks (WLAN), multi-hop and ad hoc wireless networks, and covers aspects such as medium access control, routing and transport protocols. The second part covers the fast emerging field of wireless sensor networks that enables visibility into physical processes in a convenient manner. Pertinent issues such as energy management and distributed information processing will be covered. The distinguishing feature about this module is the engineering emphasis on the coupled relationship between wireless and sensor network protocols and the underlying physical layer and energy considerations.
The module exposes students to a variety of modelling and techniques involving optimization problem formulations in communications signal processing and networks. The topics include linear and nonlinear programming formulations, constrained and unconstrained optimization techniques, network flow models and algorithms, and convex optimization techniques. The module also helps in the understanding of the problem formulation approaches for a wide variety of applications using the methods and techniques taught in the earlier part of the course. It is intended for students to gain knowledge and use of optimization techniques pertaining to the applications in communications & signal processing and networks (wired and wireless) domains.
This course provides students with fundamental concepts, principles and theory for the analysis, design and measurement of antennas such as wire, aperture and microstrip and slot antennas. Students will learn fundamental concepts behind antenna theory and design, the latest methodologies employed for antenna analysis and measurement, and most importantly, how a desired antenna system can be efficiently designed from initial specifications by means of simple practical engineering procedures and CAD tools. This specialised module is recommended for graduate students specialising in microwave/RF theory and techniques. This module is supplementary for the general area of communication systems.
This module teaches basic theories and applications of electromagnetic waves. Topics include: Fundamentals include quasi-static and dynamic solutions to Maxwell"s equations, plane-wave propagation and scattering, guiding structure and cavity, behavior at interface between media, Green"s functions, and method of moment.
This course deals with the design and analysis of high performance computer architectures with respect to several aspects of the multiple computer systems. Issues such as scalability, architectural issues, parallelism, performance metrics, and programming, are considered. The main intent of this course is to stay tuned with the current technology trend and to meet the requirements of the modern computer industry. The syllabus has the following four distinct major topics - Theory of Parallelism, Hardware Technology Overview, Scalable Architectures for High Performance Systems, Parallel Programming Concepts. This course serves as a strong foundation to those who wish to set their career (research and/or employment) in the domain of computer architectures, parallel and distributed processing, and software engineering.
This module gives FASS students the opportunity to pursue an internship as part of their undergraduate study. Interested students will need to secure a position and perform an internship in a company or organization, either for 8-12 weeks full time in special term, or 12-16 weeks part time in a regular semester. They will submit journal entries and other written reports, and meet with an Academic Advisor and Workplace Supervisor. Through the process, students will be exposed to corporate culture, sharpen soft skills, practice what they have learned in the classroom, and gain useful work experience.
This module is a core module for students of MSc in Financial Engineering. The topics include: Financial Markets and Instruments. Management of foreign exchange, money market, and derivatives desks. Asset-Liability management. Regulatory issues. Corporate Valuation, restructuring, leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions. Issues of deal structures and management of cashflow.
This module aims to familiarize the students with the reality of trading within the financial markets environment. Beyond the pure trading principles, it covers the many aspects of trading decisions, in terms of risk control and limits, market and economic data and information, overall portfolio management, practical market standards and conventions, specificities of derivatives trading, trading styles and techniques to manage specific market situations. This module should prepare students to better grasp trading and financial markets and allow them to become effective in a work environment in a record short time.
The fundamentals of financial market technologies and functionality in the Front-, Middle- and Back-offices, the interdependencies of their systems, typical user interfaces, through to typical system architecture will be taught. Principals of algorithmic trading will also be covered, and students will be challenged to design solutions for real-market trading strategies. This module will encompass the Learning Outcomes from the other modules in the MFE program, giving the student practical knowledge, skills and industry best practice in electronic markets. Lively learning activities and interactive discussions based on current market scenarios will bring students through a realistic and relevant learning journey.
This course provides students with an in-depth understanding of the key financial issues faced by modern-day financial managers of corporations. It will equip students with conceptual and analytical skills necessary to make sound financial decisions. Topics to be covered include risk and return, capital budgeting, capital structure, dividend policy and mergers and acquisitions. Cases will be used to illustrate the concepts taught.
This is an introductory course in investments. It provides a comprehensive coverage of basic concepts, theories, applications and decision-making rules in financial investment. Topics to be covered include fundamental security analysis on stocks, bonds, options and futures as well as modern portfolio management. On completion, candidates should be conversant in investment management in preparation for careers in financial analysis and financial planning, investment banking, and corporate finance. Candidates should also be equipped to write the Chartered Financial Analysts (CFA) Level 1 examinations in quantitative analysis, equity securities analysis and portfolio management.
This is an introductory course in investments. It provides a comprehensive coverage of basic concepts, theories, applications and decision-making rules in financial investment. Topics to be covered include fundamental security analysis on stocks, bonds, options and futures as well as modern portfolio management. On completion, candidates should be conversant in investment management in preparation for careers in financial analysis and financial planning, investment banking, and corporate finance. Candidates should also be equipped to write the Chartered Financial Analysts (CFA) Level 1 examinations in quantitative analysis, equity securities analysis and portfolio management.
This advanced Seminar in Finance module will serve as a comprehensive real world examination of the quantitative techniques available and how these might be applied to portfolio management in the investment management industry. Major topics covered include exploring various quantitative tools and models for Estimating Expected Returns, Modelling Risks, Style Analysis & Bench-marking, and Strategic & Tactical Asset Allocation. Lectures will involve frequent interaction with practitioners from the industry hands-on lab projects and real-life examples. Suitable for students interested in a career as an investment analyst or as a portfolio manager in the financial services sector.
Students often tend to think that if a system displays a complex behavior, it must be itself somehow complicated, difficult to describe. The aim of the module is to show, in a playful way, that this is not (always) the case, that really simple systems ranging from physics, meteorology, engineering, computer science, biology and economics, can have a rich, complex … and unpredictable behavior. Many notions are at the heart of this module such as determinism versus predictability, chaos, the need for a statistical description, random walks, ergodicity, entropy, fractals, cellular automata, self-organized criticality, emergent behavior, etc.
We use many different medications every day, e.g. aspirin for headache, Claritin for allergy and Lipitor for cholesterol control. However, people usually do not know the exact protein target and mechanism of action of the medication they take. This module exposes students to the use of computer software to investigate structure of the drug molecule in complex with the protein target to understand its mechanism of action. A better drug molecule can be rationally designed to have reduced side-effect, improved efficacy and bioavailability. Each student will select one drug to explain and present its mechanism of action and design.
This module provides an overview of the major animal and plant based foods and how these need to be processed or treated before consumption in order to ensure that they are safe to consume Particular emphasis is given to the potential problems of spoilage by micro-organisms but also the usefulness of some micro-organisms inthe production of selected foods. The application of the concepts is tested by the development (in teams) of new snack type products.
This module will cover the chemistry of major food components such as water, lipid, carbohydrate, and protein including food enzymes.The basic functions of these components will also be introduced. Some chemical reactions involving these molecules with relation to food processing and storage are discussed. In addition, methods of chemical modification to change the chemical and physical properties of the food components are also presented.
The objective of this module is to enable students to work on an individual integrated research project spanning over two semesters, with approximately 400 hours of workload. Students learn how to apply skills acquired in the classroom and also think of innovative ways of solving problems, and learn to work in a research environment. The project demonstrates a student’s work ethic, initiative, determination, and ability to think independently. On completion of the project, the student has to submit a dissertation describing the project work, and give an oral presentation before a panel of examiners.
Straddling the fields of faith, civilisations and culture, migration, diaspora, political economy, foreign policy and international politics, this module, being multidisciplinary in complexion, provides for a multifaceted understanding of India-Singapore relations in the contemporary world.
In this module, an overview of the ageing population and its increasing relevance for public health planning and policy, both in Singapore and internationally. Major topics include demography of ageing, normal (physiological and biological) and abnormal (physical and mental) ageing, prevention of ageing-related diseases and compression of morbidity, health and social services and policies for older persons, and medico-legal and ethical issues of care for the older persons. Students will learn how to apply their knowledge to critically appraise health and social programmes and policies for older persons and apply medico-legal and ethical principles in the care for older persons.
Independent research plays an important role in graduate education. The Independent Study Module is designed to enable the student to explore an approved topic in Southeast Asian Studies in depth. The student should approach a lecturer to work out an agreed topic, readings, and assignments for the module. Head"s and/or Graduate Coordinator"s approval is required. Regular meetings and reports are expected. Evaluation is based on 100% Continuous Assessment and must be worked out between the student and the lecturer prior to seeking departmental approval.
This module will extend beyond planning theory to cover recent developments in planning and development in the global, regional and local contexts. The main aim is to equip students with contextual knowledge of how planning is practiced in contemporary markets, recognising the dynamic nature of the development environment and the socio-political imperatives that drive planning decisions. The topics cover fundamental knowledge on how plans are formulated and translated into development projects, in the context of challenging economic, social and political /institutional environments and focus on professional development using case studies.